procedures: rewrite and expand the "Backup and disaster recovery" sections of the admin guide (#2121)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_configuring-che-with-custom-resources-to-use-a-rest-backup-server.adoc

[id="configuring-{prod-id-short}-with-custom-resources-to-use-a-rest-backup-server_{context}"]
= Configuring {prod-short} with custom resources to use a REST backup server

To configure {prod-short} to use an external REST backup server:

.Prerequisites

* Configured external REST backup server. See xref:supported-restic-compatible-backup-servers.adoc[].

> * Created backup repository. See link:https://restic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/030_preparing_a_new_repo.html[Preparing a new repository].

Reviewer: Not needed. Che Operator will do it for you

Author: Fixed.

[id="configuring-{prod-id-short}-with-custom-resources-to-use-a-rest-backup-server_{context}"]
= Configuring {prod-short} with custom resources to use a REST backup server

To configure {prod-short} to use a REST backup server:

.Prerequisites

* Configured REST backup server. See xref:supported-restic-compatible-backup-servers.adoc[].

.Procedure

. Create a secret containing the `repo-password` key with a Base64 encoded password:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: backup-encryption-password-secret
  namespace: eclipse-che
type: Opaque
stringData:
  repo-password: __<base64_encoded_password>__
----
+

> ({prod-short} Operator setup up this password for the backup repository that {prod-short} Operator will create from this custom object on the backup server.)

Reviewer 2: The {prod-short} Operator sets up
that the {prod-short} Operator

Author: Thank you. Fixed.

> (The {prod-short} Operator setup up this password for the backup repository that the {prod-short} Operator will create from this custom object on the backup server.)

Reviewer: `setup up` typo?

Author: :) A typo indeed. Thank you for catching it!

+
include::snip_warning-about-losing-backup-repo-password.adoc[]

> . Create a secret (for example, `name: rest-server-auth-secret`) containing the `username` and `password` keys for the REST server user credentials: a Base64 encoded username and a Base64 encoded password.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is confusing, please consider rewording. 
Wonder if rewording like this helps: Create a secret (for example, `name: rest-server-auth-secret`) containing the Base64 encoded `username` and `password` keys for the REST server user credentials.

Author: Thank you. I fixed it but differently to retain the correct meaning.

> . Create a secret (for example, `name: rest-server-auth-secret`) containing the `username` and `password` keys for the REST server user credentials, using Base64 encoded username and password values.

Reviewer: `using Base64 encoded username and password values` might confuse. Actually it depends on the way one creates the secret. If it is done via UI or `kubectl create secret ...` no encryption needed (will be done automatically, but if you say to pass already encrypted values we'll end up with double encryption which is wrong. But if the secret is created from yaml via `kubectl apply ...` then base64 encryption needed.

Author: @mmorhun What about this?
```suggestion
. Create a secret (for example, `name: rest-server-auth-secret`) containing the `username` and `password` keys for the REST server user credentials.
+
TIP: You don't need to encode the values to Base64 if you create the secret in a UI or by running `kubectl create secret`. However, you must encode the values to Base64 if you create the secret from a YAML file by running `kubectl apply`.
```

Author: Also, if the suggested TIP is okay, then should I also add it to
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/78564304/147232184-d8fd2495-8ab4-401d-8179-3595b93c015d.png)
and to
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/78564304/147238646-7c51d786-a22e-48da-af39-11acf56a0c71.png)
?

Reviewer: That's possible, but this information is more about Kubernetes itself than Che. We can just ask user to create secret with required fields (the same way as any secret is created).

+
NOTE: Skip this step if not using the REST server user credentials.

. Create the `CheBackupServerConfiguration` custom object:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheBackupServerConfiguration
metadata:
  name: backup-server-configuration
  namespace: {prod-namespace}
spec: <1>
  rest:
    protocol: https <2>
    hostname: _<hostname>_ <3>
    port: 1234 <4>
    repositoryPath: {prod-id}-backups <5>
    repositoryPasswordSecretRef: backup-encryption-password-secret <6>
    credentialsSecretRef: rest-server-auth-secret <7>
----
<1> `spec` property of this custom object must only have one section configured.
<2> Optional property that specifies the protocol to be used: `https` is the default value; `http` is a permitted value.
<3> Backup server hostname.
<4> Optional property that specifies the port on which the backup server is running. The default value is `8000`.
<5> Path on the backup server where the backup snapshots are stored.
<6> Secret created in step 1.

> <7> Secret created in step 2.

Reviewer: Please add a note, that the field is optional.

Author: Added. Thank you.

> <7> The secret created in step 2.

Reviewer 2: Remove 'The' from <6> and <7> to make them consistent with the rest of the call outs

Author: Thank you. Fixed.

> . To configure multiple backup servers, create a separate `CheBackupServerConfiguration` custom object for each backup server.

Reviewer 2: This seems like an Optional step, in OpenShift we start such steps with:
. Optional: Step description
Not sure about the conventions for Che.

Author: Oh, great! Thank you! I'll add it to Che conventions (we're working on some).
